---
layout: post
title: A Simple Logging Solution in Python
tags: [Python, logging, hack]
---

As a best practice, we often use logging to record.

We used to use `print` to log records:

{% highlight python %}

def get_now(format='%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S:%f'):
    return date.strftime(datetime.now(), format)

print(get_now, 'MESSAGE')
{% endhighlight %}

This is not an efficient way for logging: neither providing sufficient info, nor offering the flexibility to modify. Therefore we considered to use `logging` module to tackle this problem.

Both [Good logging practice in Python](https://fangpenlin.com/posts/2012/08/26/good-logging-practice-in-python)
and [Logging — The Hitchhiker's Guide to Python](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/writing/logging/) provide comprehensive guides to this topic. However, constructing a simple logger should not be so complicated.

We can just write a three-line logger to cope this task.

{% highlight python %}

def basic_logging(msg, format = '%(asctime)s %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s', level = logging.INFO):
    logging.basicConfig(format=format, level=level)
    return logging.info(msg)

{% endhighlight %}

In this way we can just this snippet in other functions to log the records. For example:

{% highlight python %}

def read_json(json_file):
    basic_logging('Reading begins')
    data = pandas.read_json(json_file, lines=True)
    basic_logging('Reading ends')
    return data.notnull()

{% endhighlight %}

The output looks like this:

{% highlight bash %}

2017-04-13 14:09:07,053 root         INFO     Reading begins
2017-04-13 14:09:09,036 root         INFO     Reading ends

{% endhighlight %}

Life is much easier!
